Getting started guides for Kyma (#9296)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/getting-started/01-overview.md

---
title: Overview
type: Getting Started
---

This set of Getting Started guides is an end-to-end scenario that will walk you through all major Kyma functionalities and show its:
- **Integration and connectivity** feature brought in by [Application Connector](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/application-connector/). With Kyma, you can connect external applications and expose their APIs and events to the cluster.

> - **Extensibility** feature provided by [Service Catalog](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/service-catalog/). You can use its built-in portfolio of external services in your microservices and Functions.

Reviewer: The mapping presented in the paragraph is not so simple. We have 2 main use cases:
- extensibility
- application runtime

The main components (building blocks): application connector, service catalog, eventing, service mesh, serverless can be used in both scenarios.
 
In the extensibility use case, you build your extension and connect it to the system that you extend with Application Connector. You can host your extension in Kyma as a serverless function (very simple), microservice (more complex), or even multiple microservices (super complex extension).

In the application runtime use case, the application connector can be also used (as integration point) but it is not a mandatory component. Serverless can be used but microservice probably will work better in more complex cases. Application Gateway, Service Mesh, and Eventing probably will be the most commonly used components in that scenario. Service Catalog simplifies integration with other services (hyperscalers, SAP, or any other OSB compliant).

Author: @pbochynski, thanks for your input. I modified this section according to your suggestion. I haven't focused on the components this time so much (just mentioned SC but rather to explain where those services I mentioned are coming from). Take a look if it's fine now.

> - **Application runtime** - when you want to shape your business logic from scratch and use Kyma to build standalone microservices and Functions rather than extensions for the existing systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Application runtime** - when you want to shape your business logic from scratch and use Kyma to build standalone microservices and Functions rather than extensions for existing systems.
```
Do we mean any specific systems, or just existing systems in general?

Author: in general

Reviewer 2: Then let's go without the definite article.

Author: ok

---
title: Overview
type: Getting Started
---

This set of Getting Started guides is an end-to-end scenario that will walk you through all major Kyma functionalities and show its:
- **Integration and connectivity** feature brought in by [Application Connector](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/application-connector/). With Kyma, you can connect external applications and expose their API and events on the cluster.
- **Extensibility** feature provided by [Service Catalog](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/service-catalog/). You can use its built-in portfolio of external services in your microservices and Functions.

> - **Application runtime** feature supported by [Serverless](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/serverless/) where you can build microservices and Functions to interact with external services and applications to perform a given business logic.

Author: `lets` is ok, but I changed a bit the sentence in this way:
```
**Application runtime** feature supported by [Serverless](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/serverless/). This feature lets your build microservices and Functions that can interact with external services and applications to perform a given business logic.
```

> - **Application runtime** feature supported by [Serverless](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/serverless/) where you can build microservices and Functions to interact with external services and applications to perform a given business logic.

Reviewer 2: We still have the problem described in `2.`, where the sentence can be read in two alternative ways: 
- `This feature lets you build microservices and Functions (...) and applications (...).`
- `This feature lets you build microservices and Functions that interact with (...) applications (...).`

> - **Application runtime** feature supported by [Serverless](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/serverless/) where you can build microservices and Functions to interact with external services and applications to perform a given business logic.

Reviewer 2: Seems I went for the wrong meaning 😏 
How about `(...) to interact with external services and applications and to perform a given business logic`?

> - **Application runtime** feature supported by [Serverless](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/serverless/) where you can build microservices and Functions to interact with external services and applications to perform a given business logic.

Author: Sure, but with a comma before the second `and` to clarify the meaning, ok?

With these features in mind, we will:

1. Create a microservice that can expose HTTP endpoints and receive a specific type of events from external applications. It has built-in in-memory storage for storing event details, but it can also work with the external Redis storage.
2. Provision the Redis service through the Service Catalog and use it as an alternative database for the microservice.

> 3. Connect am external mock application as an addon to Kyma. We will use it to send events to the microservice with order delivery details.

Author: Good point :)

> 4. Create a Function with the logic similar to that of the microservice. You will see how it can also be triggered by order events from the mock application, and save the order details in the external storage.

Author: I put `comma` rather in a different context - to separate two sentence fragments but, either way,  I guess the wording was a bit awkward so I like how you changed it.

> 4. Create a Function with the logic similar to that of the microservice. You will see how it can also be triggered by order events from the mock application, and save the order details in the external storage.

Reviewer 2: We still have the problem described in `2.`, where the sentence can be read in two alternative ways: 
- `This feature lets you build microservices and Functions (...) and applications (...).`
- `This feature lets you build microservices and Functions that interact with (...) applications (...).`

> **CAUTION:** These guides refer to a sample `orders-service` application deployed on Kyma as a `microservice`. This way it can be easily distinguished from the external Commerce mock that represents an external monolithic application connected to Kyma. In Kyma docs, they are referred to as `application` and `Application` respectively.

> All guides, whenever possible, demonstrate the steps from both kubectl and UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All guides, whenever possible, demonstrate the steps in both kubectl and the Console UI.
```

Technically, kubectl (or the terminal) is also a kind of user interface, just not a graphical one, so us calling it `UI` is just a mental shortcut.

Author: Yes, I get your point. I just thought that is a mental shortcut that would be clear to everyone but if you think it might not, I can change it to what it was (as I see you also updated the tabs in docs this way).

## Prerequisites

1. Install:

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) (1.16 or greater)
- [curl](https://github.com/curl/curl)
- [Kyma](/root/kyma/#installation-install-kyma-on-a-cluster) on a cluster of your choice.

2. Download the `kubeconfig` file with the cluster configuration:

a. Access the Console UI of your Kyma cluster.

b. Click the user icon in the upper right corner.

c. Select **Get Kubeconfig** from the drop-down menu to download the configuration file to a selected location on your machine.

d. Open a terminal window.

e. Export the **KUBECONFIG** environment variable to point to the downloaded `kubeconfig`. Run this command:

   ```bash
   export KUBECONFIG={KUBECONFIG_FILE_PATH}
   ```

   >**NOTE:** Drag and drop the `kubeconfig` file in the terminal to easily add the path of the file to the `export KUBECONFIG` command you run.

f. Run `kubectl cluster-info` to check if you are connected to the correct cluster.

## Main actors

Let's introduce the main actors that will lead us through the guides. These are our in-house examples, mock applications, and experimental services:

> - [`orders-service`](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/orders-service) is a sample microservice written in Go. It can expose HTTP endpoints that can be used to create and read basic order JSON entities. The service can run with either an in-memory database that is enabled by default or an external Redis database. You will see on its example how you can use Kyma to deploy your own microservice, expose it on HTTP endpoints to make it available for external services, and then bind it to an external database service (Redis).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`orders-service`](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/orders-service) is a sample microservice written in Go. It can expose HTTP endpoints that can be used to create and read basic order JSON entities. The service can run with either an in-memory database that is enabled by default or an external Redis database. We will use it as an example to show you how you can use Kyma to deploy your own microservice, expose it on HTTP endpoints to make it available for external services, and then bind it to an external database service (Redis).
```
`You will see on its example how you can` -> `We will use it as an example to show you how you can`

> - [`orders-function`](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/orders-service/deployment/function.yaml) that is an equivalent of `orders-service` with the ability to retrieve order records and save data in it. Like the microservice, the Function can run with either an in-memory database or a Redis instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`orders-function`](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/master/orders-service/deployment/function.yaml) that is an equivalent of `orders-service` with the ability to retrieve order records and save data to them. Like the microservice, the Function can run with either an in-memory database or a Redis instance.
```
`to retrieve order records and save data in it` -> `to retrieve order records and save data to them`, i.e. save data to the retrieved records? 
Otherwise, it's not clear to me what `it` refers to, where it saves the data.

Author: `it` = `storage`. I rephrased that sentence :)

> - [Redis addon](https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/tree/master/addons/redis-0.0.3) is basically a bundle of two Redis services available in two plans: `micro` and `enterprise`. You will connect it to Kyma through Helm Broker and expose it in the Kyma cluster as an addon under Service Catalog. The Redis service represents an open-source, in-memory data structure store, used as a database, cache and message broker. For the purpose of these guides, you will use the `micro` plan with in-memory storage to demonstrate how it can replace the default memory of the microservice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Redis addon](https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/tree/master/addons/redis-0.0.3) is basically a bundle of two Redis services available in two plans: `micro` and `enterprise`. You will connect it to Kyma through Helm Broker and expose it in the Kyma cluster as an addon under Service Catalog. The Redis service represents an open-source, in-memory data structure store used as a database, cache, and message broker. For the purpose of these guides, you will use the `micro` plan with in-memory storage to demonstrate how it can replace the default memory of the microservice.
```
I changed the commas:
`data structure store, used as a database, cache and message broker.` -> `data structure store used as a database, cache, and message broker.`
 The first one, after store, could remain, but I believe it negatively influences readability, as there are lots of commas around this place.

> - [Commerce mock](https://github.com/SAP-samples/xf-addons/tree/master/addons/commerce-mock-0.1.0) is to act as a sample external and monolithic application which we want to extend with Kyma. It is based on the [Varkes](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/varkes) project and is also available in the form of an addon. It will simulate how you can pair an external application with Kyma and expose the application's APIs and events. In these guides, you will use its `order.deliverysent.v1` event type to trigger both the microservice and the Function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Commerce mock](https://github.com/SAP-samples/xf-addons/tree/master/addons/commerce-mock-0.1.0) is to act as a sample external monolithic application which we want to extend with Kyma. It is based on the [Varkes](https://github.com/kyma-incubator/varkes) project and is also available in the form of an addon. It will simulate how you can pair an external application with Kyma and expose the application's APIs and events. In these guides, you will use its `order.deliverysent.v1` event type to trigger both the microservice and the Function.
```

Author: I changed it into `is to act as an example of an external monolithic application` as I thought 3 adj in a row is way too much.

Reviewer 2: I like what you did here :) Nice 👍

## Steps

These guides cover the following steps:

> 1. [Create a Namespace](#getting-started-create-a-namespace) (`orders-service`) in which you will deploy all resources.

Reviewer 2: This is nitpicking, feel free to ignore it: 

You refer to this Namespace later anyway, so maybe we could just drop the brackets here and specifically suggest its name? 

Alternatively, we could also consider switching from ```in the `orders-service` Namespace``` in further references to ```in the created Namespace``` (in the next line).

2. [Create a microservice](#getting-started-deploy-a-microservice) by deploying `orders-service` on the cluster in the `orders-service` Namespace.

> 3. [Expose the microservice](#getting-started-expose-the-microservice) through the APIRule CR on HTTP endpoints. This way it will be available for other services outside the cluster so you could retrieve data from it and send sample orders to it. Since the microservice uses in-memory storage, when you send a sample order to its endpoint, the order details will be gone after you restart the microservice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. [Expose the microservice](#getting-started-expose-the-microservice) through the APIRule custom resource (CR) on HTTP endpoints. This way it will be available for other services outside the cluster so you can retrieve data from it and send sample orders to it. Since the microservice uses in-memory storage, when you send a sample order to its endpoint, the order details will be gone after you restart the microservice.
```
If the user is a beginner (and we should assume so, given that they're Getting Started guides), they might not be familiar with the acronyms we use.

Author: yes, sure :) I normally explain that always at the beginning of the doc, I forgot here so that's for noticing that.

Reviewer 2: No worries :)

4. [Add the Redis service](#getting-started-add-the-redis-service) as an addon.

> 5. [Create the Redis service instance](#getting-started-create-a-service-instance-for-the-redis-service) in the Namespace (ServiceInstance CR) so you can bind it with the microservice and Function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. [Create the Redis service instance](#getting-started-create-a-service-instance-for-the-redis-service) (ServiceInstance CR) in the Namespace so you can bind it with the microservice and Function.
```
If I were a beginner, this might confuse me and make me think you're talking about the Namespace in the bracket, and not the SI.

> 6. [Bind the microservice to the Redis service](#getting-started-bind-the-redis-service-instance-to-the-microservice) by creating ServiceBinding and ServiceBindingUsage CRs. Send a sample order to its endpoint - since it now uses the Redis storage, the order details will not be gone after you restart the microservice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. [Bind the microservice to the Redis service](#getting-started-bind-the-redis-service-instance-to-the-microservice) by creating ServiceBinding and ServiceBindingUsage CRs. Send a sample order to its endpoint. Since it now uses the Redis storage, the order details will not be gone after you restart the microservice.
```

Author: In that case, I wrote `Since the microservice now uses`

> 7. [Connect Commerce mock](#getting-started-connect-an-external-application) as the external application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. [Connect the Commerce mock](#getting-started-connect-an-external-application) as the external application.
```

Author: I would rather write `Commerce mock`.

Reviewer 2: Sure. I don't mind the article choice, just went for unification, 'cause I thought I'd seen it somewhere higher in the document with the definite article, but I can't find it now, so it must have been my mistake. Sorry :(

Author: I checked again and unified all docs (removed `the`)

> 8. [Trigger the microservice](#getting-started-trigger-the-microservice-with-an-event) to react to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event from the Commerce mock. Send the event and see if the microservice reacts to it by saving its details in the Redis database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. [Trigger the microservice](#getting-started-trigger-the-microservice-with-an-event) to react to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event from the Commerce mock. Send the event, then see if the microservice reacts to it and saves its details in the Redis database.
```
`by saving` made me think I'm supposed to save it and thus check.

I also changed the first `and` to `then` to avoid double `and`, but if you don't like it, feel free to modify/skip it.

I did the same in line 77.

9. [Create a Function](#getting-started-create-a-function) in the Namespace and repeat the microservice flow:
- [Expose the Function](#getting-started-expose-the-function) through the APIRule CR on HTTP endpoints. This way it will be available for other services outside the cluster.

> - [Bind a Function to the Redis service](#getting-started-bind-a-redis-service-instance-to-the-function) by creating ServiceBinding and ServiceBindingUsage CRs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Bind the Function to the Redis service](#getting-started-bind-a-redis-service-instance-to-the-function) by creating ServiceBinding and ServiceBindingUsage CRs.
```

> - [Trigger the Function](#getting-started-trigger-the-function-with-an-event) to react to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event from Commerce mock. Send the event and see if the Function reacts to it by saving its details in the Redis database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Trigger the Function](#getting-started-trigger-the-function-with-an-event) to react to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event from the Commerce mock. Send the event, then see if the Function reacts to it and saves its details in the Redis database.
```

Author: I formatted it this way:
```
Function's configuration allows you to retrieve multiple order records from its storage and save individual order data in it.
```

`it` = `storage`

Author: Changed everything except for this `the`in front of `Commerce mock`.

Reviewer 2: Sure :)

> - [Trigger the Function](#getting-started-trigger-the-function-with-an-event) to react to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event from Commerce mock. Send the event, then and see if the Function reacts to it and saves its details in the Redis database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Trigger the Function](#getting-started-trigger-the-function-with-an-event) to react to the `order.deliverysent.v1` event from Commerce mock. Send the event, and then see if the Function reacts to it and saves its details in the Redis database.
```
I think we have an unintended slip-up here.
I'd personally go without the and, but if you'd rather add it, that's alright (applies also to line 73).

Author: Is that ok?
```
Send the event. Then, see if the microservice reacts to it and saves its details in the Redis database.
```

> As a result, you get two scenarios of the same flow - a microservice and a Function that are triggered by new order events from Commerce mock and send order data to the Redis database:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, you get two scenarios of the same flow — a microservice and a Function that are triggered by new order events from the Commerce mock and send the order data to the Redis database:
```
I switched the hyphen (`-`) to the m-dash (`—`), but this is not clearly visible in the monospace-font suggestion.

Author: I changed everything except for `the` in front of Commerce mock.

Reviewer 2: Sure :)

> ![Order flow](./assets/order-flow.svg)

Reviewer 2: This is just an idea, but could we use blue to differentiate the custom names (`orders-service`) in the diagram from the components?

Author: sure

Reviewer 2: Actually, I meant changing the font color of `orders-service` and `orders-function` to blue.
Sorry for not being clear enough...

Author: Ok, done 👍
